I am Nefertiti, also known as Neferneferuaten,
born in 1370 BCE in the middle east. the queen
of Egypt and wife of King Akhenaton, who played
a prominent role in the cult of the sun goddess
known as the Aton.
I bore six daughters within 10 years of my
marriage with King Akhenaton, the elder three
being born at Thebes, the younger three at
Amarna in Egypt. Two of my daughters became
queens of Egypt. I served my husband and played
a more prominent role, usurping kingly privileges
to serve as a priest and offer to the Aton.
I also participated in the ritual smiting
of the female enemies of Egypt. I wore my
own unique headdress—a tall, straight-edged,
flat-topped blue crown in those rituals.
When Aton became Egypt’s dominant national
divinity, I continued to play an important
religious role, worshipping alongside my husband
and serving as the female element in the divine
triad formed by Aton, the king Akhenaton,
and myself. I and the royal family appeared
on private devotional stelae and on the walls
of nonroyal tombs, and images of myself stood
at the four corners of my husband’s sarcophagus.
After my husband death in his 12th regnal
year, one of the princesses died, three disappeared
and are also presumed to have died. I also
vanished from historical records until 1912,
when a German archaeological mission discovered
a portrait bust of me lying in the ruins of
the Amarna workshop of the sculptor Thutmose.
The bust went on display at a museum in Berlin
in the 1920s and immediately attracted worldwide
attention, causing me to become one of the
most recognizable and, despite a missing left
eye, most beautiful female figures from the
ancient world.
My name translates to “A Beautiful Woman
Has Come”. That’s how my king saw me and
so I dedicated my life for him and for my
belief to form the wealthiest period of ancient
Egyptian history. I hope our kingdom is lasting
to this day and still considered a land of
kings, love, peace and wealth.